Let's talk about Kneser- Ney Smoothing.
One of the most sophisticated
forms of smoothing but
also one with a beautiful and
elegant intuition.
Remember that from good turing,
we talked about the C starts,
the discounted counts you
end up from good turing.
And we discount it.
Each of the counts, count of one
which was discounted to 0.04 and
the count of 2 discounted to 1.26 and so
on in order to save mass to replace the
zero counts with some lower numbers and
if you look at the actual values
of this counts 8.25 for 9 and
7.24 for 8 you notice that in very
large number of cases the discounted
count has a very close relationship
with the original count.
It's really the original count minus 0.75.
Or somewhat close to that.
So, in practice,
what good turing often does
is produce a fixed small
discount from the counts.
In that intuition that of a fixed small
discount can be applied directly.
When we do this we call this
absolute discounting and
absolute discounting is
a popular kind of smoothing.
And here we're showing you absolute
discounting interpolation.
And again the intuition is just we'll
save some time and have to compute
all of those complicated and good touring
numbers and we'll just subtract 0.75 or
maybe it will be a different discount
value for different corpora.
And here's the equation for
absolute discounting.
So we're doing bigrams again.
So the probability AbsoluteDiscounting
of a word given the previous word will
be some discounted bigram interpolated
with some interpolation weight,
with the unigram probability.
So we have a unigram probability PFW and
then the bigram probability.
And we just subtract a fixed amount,
let's say it's 0.75,
from the count and otherwise compute
the bigram probability in the normal way.
So we have a discounted bigram
probability, mixed with some weight,
which I will talk later about how
to set this weight, with a unigram.
And maybe we might keep a couple of extra
values of d for accounts one and two.
Accounts one and two we saw on the
previous slide weren't quite subtracting
0.75 so we can model this more carefully
by having separate counts for those.
But the problem with absolute discounting
is the unigram probability itself.
And I want to talk about
changing the unigram probability
not the fundamental
intuition of Kneser-Ney.
So in Kneser-Ney Smoothing,
the idea is keep that same interpolation
that we saw an absolute discounting, but
use a better estimate of
probabilities of the lower unigrams.
And the intuition for that, we can go back
and look at the classic Shannon games.
Remember the Shannon game we're
predicting a word from previous words.
So we see a sentence I can't
see without my reading,
what's the most likely next word?
Well glasses seems pretty likely.
Well how about instead,
the word Francisco?
Well that seems very
unlikely in this situation.
And yet Francisco as just a unigram,
is more common than glasses.
But the reason why Fransisco seems
like a bad thing after reading,
one intuition we might be able to get
is that Fransisco always follows San,
or very often follows San.
So while Fransisco is very frequent, it's
frequent in the context of the word San.
Now, unigrams in an interpolation
model where we're mixing a unigram and
a bigram are specifically useful.
They're very helpful just in case
where we haven't seen the bigram.
So it's unfortunate that just in the case
where we haven't seen the bigram
reading Francisco,
we're trusting Francisco's unigram way,
which is just where we shouldn't trust it.
So instead of using the probability of W,
how likely is a word,
our intuition is going to be when
we're backing off to something,
we should instead use the continuation
probability, we're going to call it P
continuation of a word, how likely is the
word to appear as a novel continuation?
How do we measure novel continuation?
For each word we will just count
the number of bigrams types and completes.
How many different bigrams does it
create by appearing after another word?
In other words each bigram type is a novel
continuation the first time you see
this new bigram.
In other words,
the continuation probability
is going to be proportional to
the cardinality of this set.
The number of preceding words i
minus one that occur with our word.
How many words occur before
this word in a bigram?
How many preceding words are there?
That will be, the cardinality of that set,
that's the number we would like our
continuation probability
to be proportionate too.
So, how many times does W
appear as a novel continuation?
We need to turn that into a probability,
so
we just divide by the total
number of word bigram types.
So, of all word bigrams
that occur more than 0 times,
what's the cardinality of that set?
How many different word
bigram types are there?
And we're just going to divide the two
to get a probability of continuation.
Of all the number of word
bigram types how many of those
have w as a novel of continuation?
Now it turns out to this
an alternative metaphor for
Kneser-Ney with the same equations.
So again we can see
the numerator as the number.
The total number of word
types that proceed w.
How many word types can w follow?
And we're going to normalize it by
the number of words that could proceed
all words.
So the sum over all words of the number
of word types that can proceed the word.
And these two are the same.
This denominator and the denominator we
saw on the previous slide are the same
because the number of possible bi-gram
types is the same as the number of word
types that can proceed all
words summed over all words,
if you think about that for
a second you will realize that's true.
So in other words with this kind of
knewser-ney model a frequent word like
Francisco that occurs only in one
context like san will have a low
continuation probability.
So if we put together the intuition of
absolute discounting with the Kneser-Ney
probability for the lower order n-gram, we
have the Kneser-Ney smoothing algorithm.
So for the bigram itself,
we just have absolute discounting.
We take the bigram count,
we subtract some d discount.
And I've just shown here that we take
the max of that in 0 because obviously
if the discount happens to be
higher than the probability,
we don't want a negative probability.
And then we're just going to interpolate
that with the same continuation
probability that we just saw,
P continuation of W sub i.
And the lambda, now let's talk
about how to compute that lambda.
The lambda is going to take all that
probability mass from all those all those
normalized discounts that we took out
of these higher order probabilities and
use those to weight how much probability
we should assign to the unigram,
we're going to combine those.
So that lambda is the amount of
the discount weight divided by
the denominator there so
it's the normalized discount.
And then we're going to multiply that
by the total number of word types
that can follow this context,
wi minus one.
In other words, how many different
word types did we discount?
Or how many times did we apply
this normalized discount and
we multiply those together and we know how
much probability mass total we can now
assign to to the continuation of the word.
Now, this is the bigram formulation for
Kneser-Ney.
Now, in this slide we're showing you
the general recursive formulation for
n grams in general.
And here we have to make a slight change
to deal with all the higher engrams.
So here we're just showing the Kneser-Ney
probability of a word given the prefix of
a word and, just like Knese-Ney we saw
before we're just interpolating a higher
order engram which is discounted
with a lambda weight and
a lower order probability.
But now we need to distinguish
between the very first
top level time that we use account and
these lower order counts.
We're going to use the actual count for
the very highest order bigram and
we're going to use the continuation
value that we just defined earlier for
all the lower order probabilities.
So, we will define this new thing.
Count Kneser-Ney which will
mean the actual account,
this will be actual account.
Let's say we're doing trigrams.
For the trigram, and then we will recurse
and have the Kneser-Ney probability for
the lower orders when we get down
to the biograms and unigrams,
we will be using the continuation account.
That's again this single word
context that we defined earlier.
So Kneser-Ney smoothing,
a very excellent algorithm,
it's very commonly used in speech
recognition and machine translation and
yet it has a very beautiful and elegant
intuition and I hope you appreciate it.